this is KPFK 90.7 FM my name is Bob
young and we are talking once again with
Carlo Goolsbee and Karl as authored a
new book called the JFK assassination
the facts and the theories it's
published by Signet paperbacks and comes
complete with a foreword by Norman
Mailer and it's it's a pleasure to talk
with you again Karl it's a pleasure to
be here Bob thanks and well I think
before we get seriously into talking
about the book perhaps we should mention
something that's come up in the news
just of late we have recently heard from
Washington DC the dr. James Humes and
Jay Thornton Boswell who were part of
the JFK autopsy team at Bethesda Naval
Hospital in Maryland have said that in
point of fact the all the bullets came
from the rear and anyone who was
studying all of that neat stuff in
Bethesda would know that for a fact so
Carl you've had some comments about that
would you like to talk about that for a
moment
probably for more than a moment a very
important move and for the AMA to be now
in a position of having its reputation
for honesty and fairness hung up in the
Kennedy assassination seems to me
certainly in terms of the AMAs overall
history a fascinating moment I'm not
sure they're going to come out of this
unscathed and it looks to me in fact as
if the AMA Journal and it's an editor
who's behind this
dr. Lundgren dr. George Lundgren I think
they have already taken some raps from
some surprising places and I'm thinking
of the long ish review of this flap that
came in yesterday's New York Times in
this
I'm section which is very interesting
place for it to be along for the times
review of the argument about the bullets
the direction of the front shots that's
now going on between dr. Crenshaw who
says two shots from the front and the
Journal of the AMA which has reviewed
the hold evidence and is proclaiming
shots from behind I think that one want
is to get more to the point what are the
on things about this this flap that I
mean it really strikes me this is a in
every respect it looks like some kind of
a staged operation there news release
which is in front of me now says that
this is Humes
doctor's Humes and Boswell's quote
first-ever public discussion of the case
and this is just on a just elementary
incorrect information it's uh not at all
first-ever the Humes and Boswell both
gave testimony to the Warren Commission
which was utterly in public they were
examined by the members of the Warren
Commission they just they didn't just as
they have done now under a few ocular
words and then disappear and then they
talked also to the Ramsey Clark panel in
the later 60s they talked to the
Rockefeller Commission
I believe they talked to the Select
Committee on assassinations in any case
they have and and on several occasions
said in public the very same kind of
things now that they're being
represented by the AMA as presenting to
us for the first time this is ridiculous
then they say a public discussion I'm
sorry I don't see what's public about it
Lundgren doctor Lundgren has presented
the views of Humes in Boswell as though
they had been handed down to him from
Olympus but other than that Humes in
Boswell have
as usual declined to present themselves
for public interrogation on this case or
any other case for that matter these
guys just don't talk in public about
this in that sense in the sense of being
interrogated or in a sense of having to
discuss their issues so it's not a
public discussion either so I mean what
kind of points are you going to give to
the AMA when it sets this thing up on
such a false foundation they say that
big deal humans and boswell agreed at
last to talk in the venue of the Journal
of the AMA because the interview was in
a peer-reviewed scientific journal I
wonder what kind of peers could have
been involved in the review of this
article they talked to only a very few
people who were in a position to have
had first-hand information of the wounds
whether at the autopsy table in Bethesda
late that that Friday or earlier in the
aunt in the in the trauma room at
Parkland they didn't talk to everybody
they falsified the record of statements
on the part of many of their best
witnesses for example they say dr. Perry
the Parkland trauma room doctor who made
the tracheostomy the incision in the
front of the president's throat they
quote dr. Perry as saying that he has
always said the wounds came from the
front and that the the tracheostomy
looked the same
according to pictures he's seen when the
body reached the autopsy room as it did
when it left the trauma room but if all
you have to do is to go back to what he
told newspaper reporters as well as when
he told the Warren Commission to see
that this is absolutely false
all the Parkland doctors in the
beginning or at least who gone on the
journalistic record said without
exception or without the slightest
appearance of hesitation that the shots
to Kennedy that were on target were
fired from in front of him one of them
hit him in the
in the necktie area and the other hit
him in the head and killed him
and well for those who don't know dr.
Charles Crenshaw was a man who at the
time was a young resident at the trauma
room in parkland and he recently came
out with a book entitled conspiracy of
silence which states very clearly and
very emphatically that not only did the
shots come from the front but the
enlarged wound that has been seen by a
number of people on the on JFK's throat
was significantly larger than the way
dr. Perry left it when the body left
Parkland well yes it's on that point now
that that Perry is now trying to rebut
Crenshaw he says that from from the
picture from the pictures at the autopsy
the
that wound in the throat looked to him
the same as as it did in in Dallas so if
he's the guy that did it and and that's
how this thing is going to stand or fall
then Crenshaw has been one would have to
say rebut it not to say that Perry's
memory is perfect and above all not to
say that there isn't indications of
contrary evidence in the record but
still on the whole Crenshaw it seems to
me to his recovering from the attack
against him launched by the the the AMA
Journal and I would cite as some kind of
evidence for this two things first the
the New York Times editorial of a couple
of days ago which jubilantly announced
two shots from the rear in one column
said okay now when you guys all shut up
and sit down already about this
assassination conspiracy how many times
we have to listen to this preposterous
nonsense but then in the in the second
column it said and just to keep things
quiet for a while let's have the
government go ahead and release these
files
let's look into the questions that have
been raised by honest and fair-minded
assassination conspiracy critics or
theorists so they gave back in the
second column what what they had taken
away with the first in the sense that
even the New York Times now is
editorially on record as acknowledging
the need for document releases and here
and there a few key moves with the
physical evidence and some new tests in
certain areas and that's all to the good
as if the times can only say something
such a thing after sneering at those who
have been saying the same thing for
centuries it seems like well too bad for
the times but still that institution
does have a certain influence and I'm
for one happy to see that the x is now
batting on it with the right team and
then in yesterday's times not to be too
East Coast oriented here but I think
it's kind of interesting what this paper
does print what is the news it sees fit
to print in the in the May 26th issue
they have a long story in the science
section the science x section and it's
under a heading the doctors world and it
says 28 years after dallas a doctor
tells his story
amid troubling doubts it's a review of
the Crenshaw argument it talks about
Crenshaw his book it talks about this
attack on Crenshaw that's recently been
published by the Journal of the AMA and
it gives for the first time that I've
seen in print some of Crenshaw's
personal reactions to the situation
that's come up and it by no means
trashes him in fact the Journal of the
AMA people come in for a bit of a
trashing that the New York Times author
of this piece himself an MD wants to
know why if they were to take seven
years as they have claimed to do this
scrupulous study of them of the medical
evidence as reported by the medical
witnesses
did they only bother to talk to a meager
handful of of the people whom they might
have reached out to why didn't they talk
to Crenshaw he was in the room why
didn't they talk to the nurses for
example who had such dramatic testimony
of a shot from the front and an
irreconcilable large amounts of lead
being taken out of Connolly's body and
the rest of it there was no attempt to
reach out to the large base of people
who had concrete first-hand evidence to
contribute because overall there were
over I believe it was over 30 people in
the trauma room at Parkland most of whom
saw the body and in fact nurse who if I
recall correctly I think her name was
Nancy Bowen was at the president's head
at the time that his life signs were
starting to diminish and she said quite
clearly that the back of his head was
gone what do you think is behind this
current posed by JAMA that's the kind of
question you really can't discuss
without venturing into Oh into levels of
accusation that are not being made or
levels of sufficient a suspicion that
I'll not be publicly voiced unless they
the evidentiary basis much stronger I
would say for preliminaries in and for
the rock-bottom minimal interpretation
is that the Jama people have somehow
been taken for a ride
this this doctor Lundberg has has
managed to convince himself or has been
convinced somebody that he knows the
case and in his is in a position to
discuss it publicly as an expert I
assume by this time he has been disputed
of this conceit in any case
they're the the jammas effort to to shut
the thing down as I think already
clearly crashed in flames the motive for
it must have been to refute Crenshaw
Crenshaw's book conspiracy of silence
was published as I think in February it
might have been out in January mmm but
I'm sure it was already out in February
it was being written about disgust I
believe in March and despite the fact
that the book is I think rather badly
made and it lacks the overall
seriousness that such a book should have
and that is a contribution of the books
co-authors it nevertheless does contain
on may be at the outside five pages out
of less than 200 pages in the book it
does contain important new information
about what happened in the autopsy given
to her in the emergency room that is
given to us by a man who was there and
had a hands-on relationship with the
body who was medically trained to
understand what he saw and who has kept
quiet all these years for as I see it
what is a believable reason namely that
there was enormous pressure within the
medical community in Dallas and I
suppose nationally that the people who
had in any way seen the body or treated
the president in that whole process from
emergency room to auditor and through
the autopsy process should keep
maximally quiet about what they saw and
should never give the least impression
that they were trying to capitalize on
their experience or worse yet to
sensationalize it and this given the
professional character of the
institution's involved to my mind
readily explains the fact that we
haven't heard from this important body
of witnesses in any real way and and
therefore Lynne
certain drama to Crenshaw's appearance
earlier this year with the story that
they saw in the in that room evidence of
shots from the front and they have been
quiet about it all these years because
they were a part of a quote conspiracy
of silence it's logical that the guy who
says something like this about people
who are still living and up and about
and have reputations to worry about and
points-of-view to protect and access to
media people it's very understandable
that there should be an answering salvo
and what we saw with JAMA was an
answering salvo I can't believe that
that salvo was organized all together by
by the people who pretended to be
Crenshaw's victims that is to say
chiefly doctors humans and buswell who
responsible for the autopsy I I can't
believe that these guys took it in their
in their own hands to go out now in seek
of vindication before a broader audience
moreover Lundgren has implied that this
project was something like seven years
from conception to completion that in
itself as I've indicated raises a lot of
questions was it in the beginning was
this project launched in the beginning
to answer and refute David liftin who
published a very important book about
that time that our best evidence arguing
that the body of the President was
somehow surgically altered between the
time it left the trauma room in parkland
and the time it arrives some six hours
later on the autopsy table at Bethesda
this is what lift and claims and people
who are trying to avoid coming to terms
with that very painful issue are
invisible in this JAMA piece making the
most spurious kind of moves to get off
that hook the doctors the autopsy
doctors humans in Boswell for example
huff and puff that they never surgically
altered anything and they act like if
only they could catch this lift and they
would or Crenshaw who also suggests that
there's been surgery done to the body
they they suggest that they would punch
these guys right out
if only they could get to him well the
issue is not did those guys did the
autopsy surgeons changed the wounds
nobody said that liftin doesn't say that
liftin is saying that it appears from
the record as though the wounds were
changed sometime between the body's
departure from Texas and its arrival in
Maryland right now he doesn't know
although it would seem that that the
suspects must be rather limited since
the possession of the body could be
pretty well defined through that whole
period but anyway come back to this this
damn a bit it looks to me as though this
project if indeed it is seven years old
as Lundgren likes to say now it must
have been formed up in the beginning as
an answer to lift him and then I bet it
fell apart because they couldn't find a
consensus to support there they're crazy
and in fantastical views of the
assassination in other words the Warren
Commission theory they could not find
enough people to back that up and they
and maybe they even to talk to some
people who didn't back it well they did
they talked at least to one doctor one
surgeon McClellan also a veteran of the
trauma room who who joins Crenshaw and
saying that there was evidence of front
shots so maybe what happened was that
the Jama project was launched to destroy
liftin found out that it could not
destroy liftin was put back in a closet
then when Crenshaw appeared to say
basically the same things much more
simply and in a way much more powerfully
than Liston ever could
then the old front the old anti liftin
project that JAMA is dusted off and put
in as good a shape as possible and
launched before an admiring public
hoping that all the old prejudices will
kick in and that the journalistic folks
out there the media folks so hot to find
evidence of no conspiracy will get the
cue and play it up and that's exactly
what happened it did get played up as
though we're a big deal
and so humans and Boswell have not been
saying in several occasions
exactly the same thing as they're now
represented as saying for the first time
they've always said this now that comes
to the question of of what they say and
how we can relate to their idea of the
state of the wounds but that kind of
goes into another area and you may think
I'm beginning to make a speech at you so
well at that point no that's okay it's
your interview but also one should note
at the original press conference where
Lundberg read the findings of the
journal he brought up I think an answer
to a reporter's question that well I
have some question as to whether dr.
Crenshaw was even in the trauma room
I've talked to several people who can't
recall seeing him there and yet that
doctor that underscores it highlights it
jabs right in your eye the incredible
pompous Ness the pretentiousness the the
falsity with which Lundberg is claiming
scientific credentials for this article
there has nothing scientific whatsoever
in the attitude that says you have to
denounce and disgrace your opposition
Crenshaw's presence in the trauma room
is established as a matter of absolute
fact and no one who spends two minutes
with this issue could be in the least
doubt about it if member Lundberg
pretends for purely political purposes
at this point to be in doubt of
Crenshaw's presence in the trauma room
he exposes himself as either a charlatan
or a fool you can take your pick hmm
interesting choices there but yes in
fact I believe it's David Lifton's book
best evidence that includes a photograph
which quite clearly shows dr. Crenshaw
in attendance in the trauma trauma room
at the time there's no question about it
he said they indexed to the Warren
Commission he was
I mean not by not before the Commission
but people talk to him right I think
Wesley Leibler was one of the ones who
talked with him but on to another
subject and that is your new book the
JFK assassination the facts and the
theories and I'd like to remind the
audience once again this is Bob Young
I'm talking with Carlo Goolsby who let's
see Carl during the mid-1970s you were
involved in a group called the
assassination information Bureau and a
lot of the information that you people
collected has become the basis of this
book and would you like to tell us a
little bit about aib oh yeah I was just
coming myself I was coming out of a
rather bitter experience with the
anti-war movement which had done fine in
the middle 60s when I was very active
with students for a Democratic Society I
was a national officer of SDS in fact in
that period and was very much out front
and the movement against the war that's
how I got into offbeat politics to begin
with then not to go into too much detail
about that but people who know about
that period know that at the end of the
60s a sweet hearted and open-minded and
democratically organized student
movement ran afoul of an internal
faction or two that felt like they ought
to take over the levers of power and
move everything underground for the
coming battle with a collapsing imperial
state and SDS in effect got destroyed
and and that meant that out front people
like me didn't really have a continuing
role to play with with that part of the
movement I came to Cambridge Mass at
that point and started trying to put
together another set of political ideas
and a theme that became very important
to me was thinking about the Vietnam
experience I was consistently drawn back
to the question of how the big Vietnam
War got going was Kennedy actually
pointing us in
direction before he got killed or was a
new policy instituted by the new
President Johnson and again to
abbreviate I concluded then as far as I
could read the evidence Kennedy was to
come out of yet man that he had in
effect said to his to his people all
right if to the military people if you
can maintain these kinds of purposes
this kind of presence for the United
States in Vietnam by the expenditure of
a certain level of force and we're
talking the Special Forces the Green
Berets military advisers equipment
assistants and that sort of thing but
not the direct use of American combat
troops if you can achieve the objectives
of holding up the friendly if right wing
government in Saigon if you can do it
that way go ahead and do it but if it's
going to cost more than that then don't
try don't spend any more blood don't
spend any more treasure
I think that was Kennedy's basic
position not very idealistic very
pragmatic and I don't know if he was
killed in order that the gun man war
take place I wouldn't have a lot of
trouble and saying that I believed that
but on the other hand I do believe that
his death was necessary to the
escalation the radical escalation of the
Vietnam War that we saw in the period
after his death well we would have to
also point out that there were a number
of major US corporations that certainly
would not be as major as they are today
had it not been for the Vietnam War
there's no question that the war had a
constituency in American politics there
there's no question about it and I
worked for a member of that constituency
at the moment that Kennedy was killed I
was happily ensconced in the
military-industrial complex as the
senior editor of a group
the sort of the straw boss of a
department of technical editors and
writers at a place called Bendix
aerospace systems division in Ann Arbor
Michigan yes it was you know a military
engineering outfit and we were working
on on military projects at the at the
very an hour of the of the Kennedy
assassination in fact there was
considerable disgruntlement about
Kennedy around there and throughout the
industry yes
I don't know how justified it was I see
that the statistical argument about what
Kennedy was was not going to do in terms
of military expenditures is ambiguous
and hard to follow and I wouldn't want
to represent myself as an expert on that
part of it but I can say that definitely
the mood within the part of the industry
that I saw or was aware of in my job on
the inside of it the mood was very
definitely anti Kennedy I mean there was
an extreme grudge against him there was
a sense that his policies were hurting
the United States he wasn't tough enough
on Cuba he backed down at the Bay of
Pigs
do you like crew Shaw push him around I
and and here he was talking about peace
peaceful coexistence all the time and
didn't he know that these commies needed
to have it shoved in their faces and
wasn't going to get us into an awful lot
of trouble to go further down this road
that was a very ordinary opinion about
about President Kennedy and the in in my
work a day world as of 1963 and as soon
as he was gone and Johnson was in the
mood turned around like you were to hit
a light switch and with good reason I
saw our contract very soon in about in
sort of a matter of months good start
pumped up again and then by beginning of
1965 I was out of there and in the
anti-war movement and of course by 1965
at that particular time
and Johnson was escalating the Vietnam
War getting away away from their glory
here about how the aib got founded I
wanted to be brief about it you see how
many things are involved in it we're
talking American history here currently
and it's only two or seventy-three I'm
in Cambridge resettled with a new group
of friends and I started to write a
column for the Boston Phoenix a street
Winkley and in the column I started
writing about the Kennedy assassination
and drew the attention of of a very
bright guy also a young journalist with
a movement background name Bobcats who
had in fact tuned into the importance of
the JFK case somewhat earlier than I and
had set up already an organization well
a small group of folks just really
himself and two other guys who were
travelling around the country with a
slideshow and on the Kennedy case
showing the evidence and a bootleg copy
of the Zapruder film which at that point
had not been seen at all by very many
people and was always a way to draw big
crowds because people were fascinated by
what this movie might show him about the
Kennedy case and cats and his two
friends David Williams and Harvey as
ijen were traveling the country criss
crossing it I mean it may say showing to
overflow audiences to Zapruder film and
the material evidence in the case and
arguing that there was evidence of
conspiracy and saying the case needed to
be reopened by the Congress I joined in
with these three guys and together we
created something that we were pleased
to call the grassy knoll debating
society and the grassy knoll debating
society would get together very often
several times a day sometimes to talk
about this case and and to figure out
what we should be trying to do one thing
that we did was we put
on a conference at Boston University
that was very widely and favorably
reported even by the New York Times The
Globe gave it front-page coverage
January 75 the politics of conspiracy we
talk not only about the JFK case but
about the other principal assassinations
of the 60s and they then accumulating
evidence the the Church Committee for
example on intelligence had just
published highly damaging disclosures
about the CIA and our conference was
dedicated to the growth of this of
government by conspiracy within the
institutions of conspiracies formed up
within the the enlistment roles of
organizations that are already operating
operating under official secret cover so
that and that conference kind of helped
put us on the map another thing we did
was we went down to the Statehouse and
set up our our JFK program and for a
week on a more or less non-stop basis
ran through the photographic evidence
with state legislature legislators who
would drop by in the committee room to
check out what we had to say at the end
of that week a resolution which we had
proposed and helped to draft was passed
unanimously by the state legislature
here mandating the United States
Congress to reopen the case we been that
time we're running a radio program
weekly radio program over the station
WBUR based at Boston University here in
Boston in the Boston area and the
producer of that program a terrific guy
by the name of Vick Weidman decided we
needed a somewhat more publicly usable
name than the granting all debating
society so he suggested that we call
ourselves the assassination information
Bureau and that was the name of our
weekly program we would have the air for
an hour at a good time in the evening to
talk to people who had just published
books or who were doing research or had
some other interest
the general area of the Kennedy
assassination and also the larger
question of the the welfare of
constitutional government in an era when
clandestine organizations were
proliferating so that was a theme I
think that struck home to people at that
time and we got a very good listener
ship built up became the AIB in an out
front way changed our our structure and
started inviting people to come join us
although we never did concede control
over our decisions that became always
that was always a matter for the well
and its biggest maybe eight or nine
people were a part of our collective we
had all come out of the movement and
seen what damage can be done to an
organization that can lose that loses
control of its decision-making powers
and none of us wanted to go through that
again so our mode of organizing was was
that of the collective but then we
invited people to form collectives of
their own and we published a newsletter
and we try to operate as as an
information clearinghouse and do the
other kinds of housekeeping sort of
chores that need to be done if a widely
held feeling within the population is
ever going to have the political clarity
of the the thing we call a movement well
then in 1976 the Congress did start
moving towards an investigation it could
hardly not since the air was thick with
with conspiracies Nixon had just fallen
in the great disgrace of Watergate
everybody and his brother was at that
point a conspiracy theorists if not
about to JFK case then certainly about
this date of government itself so it
would have been I suppose amazing if the
Congress had not felt an enormous
pressure at that point to reopen the
Kennedy case and also the assassination
of Martin Luther King about which all
so there are lots of reasons to suppose
that the official theory no conspiracy
theory is wrong well in fact I think one
could safely say that there were no
political assassinations during the
especially the mid to late 60s that
don't raise some rather startling
questions in fact may be the case as the
Bobby Kennedy murder is is even more
startlingly clear I mean the case for
well we'll get into that at some other
time right at the moment I think we
should probably stick with your book
your it's a wonderful collection of
material and I noticed that most of it
originally appeared in the assassination
information bulletin when we when we
along with other groups and individuals
I'm not trying to steal all the glory
for the AIB but we were a part of the
movement that did got to Congress
finally to react and set up the House
Select Committee on assassinations and
at that point we in the AIB collective
decided that it was it was appropriate
for us now to move our office from
Cambridge to Washington and and to try
to play the role of informed citizens
watchdog over the behavior of the
assassinations committee we thought that
there was a an audience out there that
would want better more detailed and more
sophisticated coverage of the the
assassinations committee than they could
find in the newspapers or or even in the
journals so we managed to raise a little
bit of money and it always was a little
bit I'd look back and see how much we
got done and how little money it seems
amazing to me but anyway a couple of us
went to Washington and set up an office
for the AIB and open up kind of AIB
safehouse that became a way station for
people moving through the area and we're
interested in these kind of things so I
think we did a pretty good job at
becoming a center for the exchange of
Jews and information and I think we also
succeeded in making the Select Committee
staff investigative staff aware of the
existence of community of concerned
researchers yes not all of them lawyers
not all of them trained in the the best
technical and scientific colleges but
smart people who had grabbed hold of
interesting thing it seems in this case
and dedicated considerable time and
energy and ingenuity and researching
them and who had something important to
contribute and the committee ought not
to let itself be browbeaten by that
lawyerly feeling that if a lawyer didn't
find it out it can't be true so I think
that to a certain degree to a good
degree we were fairly successful at that
building a bridge from the community of
independent researchers to the Select
Committee investigative staff and one of
the things that we did too was to help
people keep a look keep people are
nationally informed on what was
happening we published a very
substantive newsletter called
clandestine America we put it out I
think maybe eight nine ten issues over
that essentially two year period then at
the end of 1978 the committee and public
hearings presented evidence that it
found conclusive as to conspiracy well
you can't say conclusive because the
language of the final report says that
the committee found conspiracy in the
case of JFK probable
so they were not willing to say that
absolutely the other shadowmen doubt
there were two guns firing in Dealey
Plaza but the committee had discovered
technical evidence the so-called
acoustics evidence which did persuade it
at the time that it had to give a vote
for probable conspiracy and that is to
say the case is open again folks Lee
Harvey Oswald didn't do it or at least
he didn't do it alone we don't know who
he was connected with or what was behind
him if he was an assassin or if he was a
patsy it scarcely makes any difference
we don't know anything about him
we cannot reliably and confidently
interpret his real role in this case we
need a new investigation and we need the
government to put its heart and soul
into it for once and stop running from
the thing I thought that at that point
in nineteen in 1979 when that deal was
sort of out on the table I thought well
the AIB assassination information Bureau
has done what it came to do we started
out five years six years before with the
idea that there was a a latent public
demand for an honest new look at the
question who killed JFK and for that
matter kill King and we started out on
the proposition that if a fair-minded
technically competent investigative
staff would look at the evidence in
these two cases it would be compelled by
the standards of reason and logic to
cook to conclude that a conspiracy was
at least an important possibility in
each case and indeed that's what they
that's what the committee did discover
that's what they concluded a conspiracy
was probable in the case of JFK and
likely as the committee worded it in the
case of King now my feeling after all
that I had lived through at that time I
cannot understand how I could have been
so
naive and maybe it wasn't that I was
naive maybe we were all not naive maybe
we were just tired because it had taken
something out of us to do this it was a
major effort so we decided in the AIB
collective that we had done what we had
when we came to town to do and there was
no reason for us to stick around and try
to live off our laurels and define some
new role now the case was open now
official organ and organs of inquiry at
the executive level would necessarily
kick in and the thing that we wanted to
see happen would happen the rock would
fall down the mountain but what do you
know it didn't it got hung up and the
new investigation never did take place
the Justice Department looked at one
little bit of the technical evidence the
acoustics evidence and decided through
tests in a bit of a fluke that the
evidence wasn't any good and did not
compel belief in the in the hypothesis
of a shot from the front and as far as
the justice department was concerned
that was that there was no other crowd
credible evidence of conspiracy it was
not it saw no new evidence that it had
to look into the acoustics was now
refuted and everybody could go back to
sleep about it Kennedy was killed by one
lone nut' and there was no big
conspiracy to be found well that's sort
of in the mid-80s that that was
happening and brother Regan was secure
in the in the saddle and it did seem to
those of us who had spent the 70s some
of us even back into the 66 he's caring
about this so much we're now in a period
where there wasn't a whole lot that we
could do we could pursue our own
independent research projects and write
our books and keep the keep the flames
of inquiry alive in the in the popular
marketplace but there didn't seem
anything that we could do in an
efficient
level two move the case ahead then came
Oliver Stone and JFK and you and your
audience that well perceived suddenly
the thing was burning lee alive again
with everyone
seemingly taking up the argument and the
issue has it's hardly for a day but out
of the public eye and in what the six
months or so well a little more than
that since the attack on stones Chad
came again well before the movie was
released to December yes yes in fact the
attack on the movie began while the
while the film was still in the process
of production before they had even
rolled a camera on it on the basis of
what stone now says was a stolen first
draft of the script of the record and
try to distort people's positions
they're gonna pay a price for it I I
think that that the Washington Post
crowd behind George Lardner and Time
magazine and the rest who joined in that
howling Lee fiendish I mean that all of
that energy once it's not if it's not
going to sink home and kill the guy that
it's targeted on it's gonna rebound and
why do people not understand that if
you're gonna attack a project like this
kill it if you're gonna attack a guy
like Stone stop what he's doing if
you're just gonna fiddle around with it
you're just gonna irritate the Beast all
you're doing in the end is preparing a
hotbed of public awareness which is
exactly what Oliver Stone and this movie
project needed in fact if you look back
at this whole period from last fall up
through the release of the movie in the
wintertime when this attack was coming
down from time from from the New York
Times
The Washington Post who not what would a
publicity agent have been paid who could
have generated that kind of advance
publicity for a movie its father stone
had sat down with the most the shrewdest
conspiracy in the world to figure out
what's the best way to market his movie
I can't see how you'd have hit on a
better path than the one that was
actually taken now can certainly
virtually every book that was ever
written about the JFK assassination is
either in print or back in print right
at the moment all the way from Sylvia
Meagher to Colonel Fletcher Prouty
practically everything is there
available for the public now and the
public from the response at bookstores
and libraries seems to be gobbling it up
anyway once again before we I have a I
have something I definitely want to ask
you here in a moment Carl but I thought
I'd better remind the listeners that
this is KPFK 90.7 FM we're talking once
again with Carl Oh Goolsbee the author
of a new book from Signet paperback
called the JFK assassination the facts
and the theories and something that I've
been hearing a lot of lately since I've
been pouring myself back into this case
after a lot of years just assuming that
it was hopeless a number of people have
accused me of rampant paranoia oh this
is gee well this government couldn't
possibly keep a secret that long that
big no we're not we're talking about
individuals we're also talking about
well as far as government conspiracy
goes let's face it there are still
questions about the Lincoln
assassination that have never been
adequately answered and that's 120 years
ago but you start your book with an
article from apparently from a lecture
at MIT in 1973 called paranoia as a way
of knowing and I found that fascinating
because it answers so many
of the questions about paranoia I wonder
if you could tell us a little bit about
that I think that it is it is so weak
minded for someone to say something like
ah you're a paranoid if they catch you
in the act of trying to piece together
the the secret dimension of government
power okay in the first place
come on paranoia if it makes any if it
has any real meaning has meaning within
the domains of psychiatric observation
and it has no real place in political
discourse it is just a dirty word that's
thrown out when somebody is befuddled by
the evidence that you're trying to
reduce and they don't want to deal with
that so as far as I'm concerned the if
somebody wants to just complete with one
single blow let us know that he is not
serious about this case then let him
just throw the word paranoia around as
though he were telling anybody anything
or answering any real questions it's not
really a sane charge even it's just a
case of oh you're paranoid which means I
don't want to discuss it anymore I think
there's a reason for that I I think that
that that the liberal tradition
especially which which lives on perhaps
better at least in our newspapers than
in our governmental institutions our
press our media if something really
deeply invested in the idea that they
are telling us generally the truth about
the world on a day-by-day basis right
that they may miss a little bit of a
story here and there or one or the other
of them may get a fact wrong someplace
else but they'll soon be corrected all
stories that are stories are treated as
stories and if a story that you thought
was a good story is not visible in the
press you don't see it there then you
were wrong to think that it was a story
this was true of the escalation of
Vietnam as
the experience of absorber stem with the
New York Times made clear understand in
the mid-sixties starts seeing the
evidence of a new US role in Vietnam and
of gathering strength on the part of the
enemy and he starts wondering aloud who
is really what his enemy is because on
the theory that the enemy is the enemy
of the Vietnamese people then the enemy
should not be gaining the inroads into
the confidence of Vietnamese people that
is apparent well this was a story that
was a non-story and if you tried to tell
it you became a non-person Halberstam
with all his prizes became a non
reporter for the New York Times when he
started telling an on story that turned
out nevertheless to be the truth know
what I'm trying to say is that the media
operate in terms of assumptions about
what they take the world to be
assumptions about what they imagine the
agenda of important stories is from
moment to moment they take a lot of
pride and they demand a lot of space and
respect and latitude on the assumption
that the world that rid that they report
corresponds in all the important
particulars to the world that's actually
out there now here comes the little
paranoid freak nut buff who has dared to
look at two or three sources on the
Kennedy assassination and compare them
and had seen the anomalies in the
official record has noted that they that
the Warren Commission evidence for its
case does not add up to anything like a
proof and that has allowed his little
silly moronic mind to become bothered
about this and one of the high and
mighty people at the Washington Post and
in the New York Times and at CBS and NBC
at ABC one of the lords and ladies of
the great news establishment going to
say to this skinny little scrawny nut
with his two or three contradictory
facts get out of here kid yeah and
that's what the media have been trying
to say to
critics on this case for decades it's
just now in the in the dust-up since the
JFK movie that a new fact is beginning
to emerge which gives me considerable
hope which is that the people within the
community of the media who are now
beginning to get the bye lines and to
get in the important local TV news seats
and to have a certain edge and
experience in you already and so on and
who were never committed before to the
defense of the Warren Commission theory
our story these people are starting to
move into positions of influence and
they are open to the conspiracy theory I
think this is why even in the New York
Times just and just yesterday on Tuesday
the story about Crenshaw is so much
fairer than anything that I've seen at
times produced so far here they had
Crenshaw's neck on a chopping block it
was only necessary to send one of the
usual journalistic assassins that they
have working for them and the times
could have dispatched the Crenshaw a
case once and for all they didn't do it
they in effect raised questions about
the AMA attack on Crenshaw they raised
questions about the care with which that
attack had been prepared and carried off
they reestablished that Crenshaw was
indeed in the trauma room and did have
an opportunity to experience what he did
what he said he did they even
established that Crenshaw was called to
the phone by a mysterious caller from
outside outside the hospital this is the
caller whom Crenshaw takes to have been
Lyndon Johnson telling him this is in
the autopsy on hospital that they wanted
a you know or the autopsies know on
Kennedy Roberts they wanted a lone
assassin model of the crime
so Crenshaw is vindicated on on several
points and I think restored to
credibility as an important witness on
this matter and this by the New York
Times I I would not have imagined that
this would has happened ten years ago
and under similar circumstances it just
wouldn't have happened this way so I
think that to a certain extent even
though it seems sometimes that that
progress is so slow as to being our
progress at all the fact is that there
is progress and that the people who have
been trying to find out the truth on
this thing and to and to keep the issue
in the in the public eye over bit by bit
as time goes by overall being vindicated
and dedicated in the only way that
really makes a difference and that is in
the eyes of American opinion yeah cos
one does have to point out that in fact
over 80% of the people of the United
States believe that JFK was shot by a
conspiracy that Lee Harvey Oswald was
perhaps involved in the conspiracy but
certainly not a major player and that's
over 80 percent of the people of the
country it's a it's a huge number I
think if you check it it might be 82
percent of those with an opinion yeah
and there there are about 15 percent who
strangely enough have no opinion on the
matter so in any case it's a huge
majority and it has held for years it's
not as if this is just a spike on a on a
graph this is a long flat line that's
been up around 70 percent 75 percent
since early in the 1970s the American
people gave the Warren Commission a
chance they listened to it for a moment
they accepted it if you watch the
movement of the opinion polls right
after Warren comes out in 1964
with the report it got a pretty general
pretty generally soft treatment at the
press at the hands of the press which
was not inclined to raise a lot of
questions about people of the probity of
Earl Warren and Richard Russell and
Allen Dulles annoying solos but then
just to finished I thought after that
little dip in which people bought it
they started looking more carefully and
listening to the critics and right away
went to a majority critical and it's
been which already critical ever said I
would like to mention again that Carlo
Goolsbee is the author of the JFK
assassination fact some theories he also
for those of you who are into it has
another book that came out recently from
Odeon press in Northern California
called who killed JFK and I think
between the two of them you can spend a
lot more and get a lot less information
from other sources so like these are
both worthwhile and I think well worth
your time anything you'd like to wrap on
girl it's always a pleasure to talk with
you old man and I know that this case
will continue to evolve and I know there
we'll talk some more
to be continued ok well thank you once
again for joining us and I hope all is
well back in Cambridge and we will as
you say we will talk again in the near
future
Carlo Goolsbee thank you very much